Chapter 1: Intro
0:00Neutral. I'm sure this is a term a lot of you watching have heard within the last two-ish months of Marvel Rivals. Be other content creators or streamers.
0:066 secondsThis is a term that's being used a lot now in the community in general. Now, it's kind of funny to me because a few months ago, I made a video that happened to briefly include my belief that this
0:1414 secondsgame has a neutral that doesn't impact as much as ultimates do and how that was a problem. I even covered what neutral means, but I never really made a full
0:2222 secondsfocused video on the topic. That changes today. So, what the hell is a neutral?
0:2626 secondsTo lay out some groundwork, we're going to need to swap games here. one to a genre that I feel would be easier to understand visually at least. Okay, so take a look at the screen. This is
Chapter 2: What is Neutral
0:3434 secondsTekken 8, a 3D fighting game that is simply just the Green Goblin mask to me at this point. Anyways, now you might be asking, Nen, why the heck are you showing me Tekken 8 when I'm asking
0:4242 secondsabout rivals? I'll get to that. I feel like it's a lot easier explaining what neutral is through a fighting game.
0:4747 secondsWhere in this genre, a lot of what makes a player good is their neutral game.
0:5050 secondsWhen you think of fighting games, you think of big combos, right? Take a look at the screen. More importantly, this bar right here. These are one of the new mechanics implemented into Tekken 8 called heat. Essentially, what heat is
0:5959 secondsis an install state, which if you also don't know what that means is that it's an enhanced state. Characters can do more with this mechanic activated. You
1:071 minute, 7 secondshave to manually pop it like this, and boom, heat activated. So, what can you do with heat? Well, like I said, combo strings you do are longer. Certain characters get new powerful moves that are heat exclusive, like this.
1:181 minute, 18 secondsA bunch of hyperaggressive things you wouldn't get with the heat meter not activated. You can only activate heat once per round and it isn't forever. Think eight inner gates from Naruto.
1:271 minute, 27 secondsThat's pretty much what heat is. Now, if you move your pretty eyes over here, we have a state called rage art. Rage art is essentially an ultimate super move that is only activated when your
1:351 minute, 35 secondscharacter has low health. They are easy to hit, have armor, and do a lot of damage. Now, combos. As I mentioned earlier, people associate fighting games with combos like this.
Chapter 3: Neutral in Marvel Rivals
1:541 minute, 54 secondsThey do a lot of damage if you're doing the most optimal ones and your opponent just kind of has to sit there and take it for the next 10 seconds. So, combos, heat and rage art. Are these the neutral
2:022 minutes, 2 secondsof this game? No. The neutral is everything that comes before and in between those big moments. Notice how these pro players look like they're tap dancing and not doing anything big
2:112 minutes, 11 secondsvisually. No long combos, rage arts, or big heat moves. That's because they're playing neutral. They are controlling the space around a match. Be it moving
2:182 minutes, 18 secondsin, backing away, jabbing here and there, baiting certain moves that they hope the opponent does. That way they can go ahead and punch the enemy for making a bad play or using something
2:262 minutes, 26 secondsthey shouldn't be using at that time. Be it via a big combo, activating heat, or using rage art for massive damage. That is neutral for Tag 8. Now, let's swap
2:342 minutes, 34 secondsback over to Marvel Rivals. It's a hero shooter where the characters have their own abilities. Neutral in Rivals is keeping track of your cooldowns, keeping track of the enemy cooldowns, baiting
2:422 minutes, 42 secondsenemies to waste their cooldowns, both parties trying to control the space of a game without being punished for it.
2:472 minutes, 47 secondswhile also waiting to make your big move whenever the enemy team messes up, either pushing too hard or pushing too little. It's a lot of mind games actually, and that is neutral. In the
2:552 minutes, 55 secondsstate of rivals, ultimates are what seem to be a problem so much because they happen so frequently and dictate too much of a match. There is a neutral in Marvel Rivals. However, it's
3:033 minutes, 3 secondsunfortunately dumbed down to who builds ultimate first. Because quite frankly, there are a lot of players that I have seen who can't get kills or even stay alive unless an ultimate is behind it.
3:123 minutes, 12 secondsAnd I don't blame them. Strategist alts are pretty much big healing circles or haha, I'm immortal. While DPS als instant deletion, they counteract each
3:193 minutes, 19 secondsother quite a bit. Not saying that they shouldn't, but more so that there isn't breathing room to play neutral outside of just getting those ultimates. Very little time to express your skill on
3:273 minutes, 27 secondsyour favorite characters such as Black Panther, Spider-Man, Angela, Psylock, all before you hear one ultimate line, then another, then another, then another, all until they're all mostly
3:363 minutes, 36 secondsused, and you team wipe and the cycle repeats itself. You end up doing that like 10 to 15 times in a match, depending how long it goes. And that's really freaking lame. To sum things up,
3:443 minutes, 44 secondsneutral is a state where neither players, enemies, or your team are at a disadvantage or advantage of each other.
3:493 minutes, 49 secondsThey are trying to control space, wait for a moment of weakness from the opposing team while making sure they themselves don't open up to a moment of weakness. I hope that makes sense to some of you. It's a lot harder to
3:583 minutes, 58 secondsexplain in a game like Rivals, which is a 6v6 hero shooter compared to a 1v one fighting game. The definition of neutral is the same no matter the game. The method of how it's played is what's
4:064 minutes, 6 secondsdifferent. I have just seen a ton of people in the rival space, especially bigger creators, throw around the word neutral without really knowing exactly what it means themselves or explaining
4:134 minutes, 13 secondsit to other people what it means. So, I feel like the definition of what a neutral is when it comes to rivals is a bit mudded. So, I really wanted to make this video for people who often hear it and just go, "What the hell is a
4:224 minutes, 22 secondsneutral?" Because it probably sounds crazy to hear this term being thrown around so much so suddenly when it comes to Marvel Rivals. So, I hope this video made it a little easier to understand
4:294 minutes, 29 secondswhat the hell that term means. If you guys enjoyed this video, please make sure to like, share, and subscribe.
4:334 minutes, 33 secondsshare with your friends because this is supposed to be more of an informative video and I hope it's really informative. Anyways, that's going to be all for me today. This is N signing out and I'll catch you guys on the next one.
4:434 minutes, 43 secondsPeace.