Welcome back ladies and gentlemen to part three of our rankup guide series
0:05
for this channel. Now for this uh episode I am joined as with a guest a
0:10
one above all level uh tank main who's been one above all for god knows how many seasons. One of the best players in
0:17
MRC. He was like a top four in MRC. Very very very strong tank player who has
0:23
helping me for today's video to explain some of the fundamentals of tank. This is going to help you have a greater
0:30
understanding of your role, your job, and whether you're main tank, off tank, or solo tanking. By the end of this
0:36
video, the goal is you have a much better understanding of what you need to be doing in every different situation.
0:42
This is going to be applicable for quite literally every single game. Very fundamental. Um, some things that people
0:48
don't really think about like taking turns, how taking turns in the game is one was one of the strongest things that
0:54
you can ever do. It's like how the game works is in turns. And that's really what we get into in this video. Tank
1:00
amongst all of the roles is very underappreciated because you have to have a strong foundational understanding
1:06
of the game. Unlike many people on maybe duelist or support who are just really good at playing their hero. When you're
1:12
on tank, you have to have an exceptional understanding of just how the game works. And that's how you're going to rank up to really really high ranks
1:19
playing as tank. Playing as tank, if you want to rank up, it's all in your fundamentals. Now, he also, if you're
1:25
interested in like specific private coaching, he does offer he does offer coaching. I'll put his link uh of his
1:30
Fiverr in the description down down below if you guys want to check that out. But without further ado, let's get
MAIN TANKING
1:36
into the guide. So guys, when you start a game, one of the first things you want to understand is the value of certain
1:41
choke points. So for example, right here where our group is standing, this is where one of the first choke points is.
1:47
He's ideally not looking to make a move until we reach this choke point. Now,
1:52
one of the best ways, as he described to me earlier, that you can conceptualize taking turns is with a venom. So, um,
1:59
you want to explain what happens when I go in? Yeah, sure. So, just swing in and like act like you're hitting my backline behind me, right? So, first thing you
2:06
want to do on group makes it really easy is that you want to shoot out the diver. Dives always goes first in in in terms
2:11
of turns, right? Once the venom gets low and he has to swing out, that means the healers have to dedicate resources to
2:17
heal him. Everyone has to turn and help the venom out. So when the enemy team has to heal the venom, that's when your
2:22
group walks forward or whatever tank you have and you start pressing your offensive abilities. Regroup would be looking to double wall whoever's in
2:28
front of you. If you're Magneto, you walk forward to the left, right, left. If you're Emma Frost, you're looking for a diamond form grab on anyone in the
2:34
front line that's overextended. Yeah. So venom is one of the best ways to see it. Like I go in and then once I go out,
2:40
that is when you as a tank utilize your resources. As he explained, no matter what tank you're playing, you have a way
2:45
to take your turn. This is your chance to strike. Now, when the venom goes in, you don't want to be pushing on your own
2:51
because your own team is dealing with the venom. What happens if this group pushes on his own? He gets no follow-up
2:56
from his team and he may actually die and int. If he pushes up on his own while I'm in his backline, he may just die or use all his cooldowns and his
3:03
resources, get no follow-up, and wonder where his team is. It's a common mistake a lot of tank players can do cuz then
3:09
they'll they'll ask, "Why is my team not pushing up?" Remember the importance of taking your turn, and venom is one of
3:14
the best ways to conceptualize this. So, how would you say the best way of understanding taking your turns is with
3:19
two frontline tanks like this? Let's say there's two other frontline tanks. Let's say I'm on uh I'm on I'm on Dynino and you're on Emma. How should we play this
3:26
out? Basically, like like if you're on Dynino and I'm on Emma, basically Emma has the
3:32
advantage, right? Cuz I have the range and the crystal. So then then so imagine like there's no other DPS in the game.
3:38
It would simply be whichever tank gets low. Like if you get low, right? Let me just shoot you for a little bit. Let me
3:44
just get you to like half. So whichever tank gets the lowest is the one that loses their turn basically. Yeah. Or or whichever team goes first.
3:51
Like so now that you're low and I'm full HP that means we can walk forward and that the enemy team has to walk backwards, right?
3:57
Mhm. So basically it comes down to whatever front line tank ends up doing more damage than the other line.
4:02
So when it's a battle of frontline tanks, it's kind of just dealing damage. Um like micro like micro timing your
4:09
abilities to get the most damage on the other person. Um and DPS also come into play. Like if there's divers for
4:14
example, what happens if like let's say there's a diver um in my backline and I as dino I turn. What do you do? What
4:21
does that mean for you? Yeah. So like remember dive always goes first. So if if I have like a like a
4:26
like a magic or something on my team and he goes down and dive then I'm going to walk well if I'm frost I'm going to
4:31
block off your heals. Put You see that shield behind you? Yeah. So you're going to block off my heals to take your turn while my magic
4:37
is in basically. Yeah. And then I'm going to do diamond form and just look for a grab on anyone.
4:42
So when my when your magic goes in even though like I'm not low, you're still
4:47
going to take your turn as a frontline tank. Exactly. Cuz you have to cuz the game is
4:53
b solely based on turns. So my assumption is let's say you're on and I'm on dino. I
4:58
am and I have a venom on my team. My assumption is I'm waiting for my uh my venom to go in. That's when I would use
5:04
my attempt to grab you, right? That's when I would like bleed you into a grab into a shield. Like that would be me
5:10
going with my venom and taking my turn. So until my venom goes in, I'm trying my best to not use any of these cooldowns.
5:16
Right. Exactly. Precisely. Right. Whenever your team takes a turn, that's when you want
5:21
to pop offensive abilities. Right. And then when it's the enemy's team turn, that's when you want to hold the S key.
5:27
It's okay to give up positioning or space. I mean, not not positioning. It's okay to give up space as long as you
5:33
guys live and can recontest. So, what if there's no divers? What if there's no divers? How does taking a
5:38
turn look without any diver? Let's say it's both front to back. Like I have a Star-Lord and a Punisher. You got like a Bucky and a Phoenix,
5:46
right? That's a really good question. So, basically just comes down to whoever takes perk uh more poke first, right?
5:53
Generally, if I'm on Emma and you're on dino, um you know, at least in a in a high elo lobby, I'm not too sure, but
5:59
it's pretty easy to land a crystal on the dino, right? And the crystals on dinosaur do immense amount of damage.
6:05
That is a lot of damage amount of damage, right? So, it's basically just comes down to whatever tank takes more
6:10
damage. If if the dino takes more damage, then when he gets really low and you he has to start holding S key and
6:16
walking backwards, then we walk forward. It's kind of like a mirror. When you walk backwards, I walk forward. When you
6:21
walk forward, I walk backwards. Depending on So, assuming I have another main tank with me, uh, is it my job to be marking
6:28
the enemy DPS if they're taking kinds of angles? Like, let's say there's a Starlord and I see him on the right room there. Let's say just this is just a
6:34
point we're holding. I know it's a Starlord on the right. Is it my job to be going for that Star-Lord before they can go for my backline or would I
6:40
entrust that to my DPS? Well, yeah, I mean that's way more comp dependent in my professional opinion. Uh
6:46
like if you're on Magneto, then you could just literally sit for point and just shoot because Mag has the longest range out of any tank.
6:52
If you're on Emma, you can kind of hold your beam. If you're on dino, you can't. If you're on dynino, your whole entire objective is point your point point. Uh
7:00
so you have to consider the range of your tank. If you're not able, like if you don't have the range, you should not go chasing, basically.
7:07
Exactly. If you're a rogue, then you can go and do that cuz you have high mobility. If you're Emma Frost, you can
7:12
kind of like laser a little bit, but you don't want to leave the point too much. You can kind of laser since you have the
7:17
range, but you can kind of poke out the off angles, but you don't want to spend all that time walking over there, cuz
7:23
then the dyno will just push uh will push forward onto your back line and take point control. So when we get this
7:29
point, my objective as a main tank, right, not as an off tank, my objective is there's certain space I want to hold
7:35
and I do not want to be sitting on cart is my understanding. So where exactly am I looking for in terms of like lines or
7:41
positioning or points I want to hold because I'm I'm pretty sure as a tank when we win a point like this or win a
7:47
fight, I'm not supposed to sit on cart. I'm supposed to take space and like set a line for my team. So explain how
7:52
they're supposed to work as a main tank. Exactly. So, as a main tank, you want to hold as closely as possible while having
7:58
cover. So, on this specific point, Nitrasil, I can kind of make a line if you want to look at my Emma Frost Beam.
8:04
So, so let's say you guys just won the team fight. Um, and you're
8:09
and and you guys are holding close. Um, generally you want to do soft poke, hold as much space as you can. Usually,
8:14
when I'm talking to my clients about this, I say that the game is kind of like Monopoly board. You want to hold as many properties as you can, right? So,
8:21
you don't want to give properties and space for That's a great analogy. holding as many properties as you can.
8:26
Exactly. So, you want to you want to like if the cart's right here and you're holding close specifically. So, you want to do soft poke up here, right? But then
8:33
gradually give space because there's no there's no corner for you to hide behind, right? And then you walk backwards and then you can hide behind
8:39
the cart. But you start as high as you can cuz like your goal is as much space as you can safely hold and then as you start
8:45
giving up space, you don't just like walk all the way back. You you just keep Yeah. hovering by cover to maintain that
8:51
ground as long as you can. Right. Exactly. And then as the car progresses, if you want to look at my Emma Frost beam here, I'll show you the exact line
8:57
where you want to hold. So typically, right, we're right here. We hold this line. We go all the way back right here. Right. So hold this
9:06
spot, right? This right here. And now this right here is when it gets a little bit funky cuz then if you want to hold
9:11
on the left side, um you don't you won't really have as much cover, right? So you
9:17
typically just want to hold this lane from here all the way back to this.
9:23
So maximizing cover basically. Maximizing cover. So let's say me, I'm on offense. I'm I'm
9:28
the offensive tank here, right? We're on offense and we won this fight and you're dead. Where am I going to like go right
9:34
now? So I'm on the cart and we just won the fight. Where do where am I going to go? Right here. I'm shooting point. Shooting
9:40
point. And then as No, let's say you're dead. Let's say you're dead and we just won the point and you're not even here. Where am I gonna go?
9:46
As much space as I can. Yeah. Yeah. Well, well, on offense. Yes, I'm on offense and I we just won
9:52
the fight and you guys are all dead. Where am I gonna go? Then on offense, depending if you're on Emma, Strange or Magneto, then you can
10:00
literally touch right here and soft like we talked about earlier. So, you want to go all the way up to here. Even if we just won two, you want
10:06
me to go all the way up here basically. All the way up here. But obviously don't die. But this is just soft poke. Building your hole as much as you can.
10:12
As soon as they start walking up, then you build another line like this. You go. Yeah. And the most important thing, I
10:18
guess, with holding this close is you do guarantee another fight for your team. Like, you get as much space as you can.
10:24
So, because you're on offense, the more space you move that cart in the neutral means the less fights you have to do to
10:30
win this point. Cuz if you hold all the way back there and then you fight them back there and then you kill them,
10:35
they're going to come back again before you cap that point. So, you have more fights basically. But if you hold up
10:41
here and you're poking and you survive in a neutral and you force a fight here, even if you lose, look at where that card is now. We just moved the card all
10:48
the way up here as if we won or lost a fight holding back there. So, because we
10:53
had all that space now, if we survived in a neutral for this long, uh, now that
10:58
we win the fight, they can't even TP back. They don't even have time. I'm sure you guys have all been in games where the enemy team is like 7 and0.
11:05
It's not very like they don't have that high of a KD, but somehow their steam
11:10
maybe you're seven and two and you're like, how do they already cap second point with 4 minutes? It's because it's
11:16
easier to do this on a dive comp to just keep pushing up to their spawn. But when you're on a comp like that's a bit
11:21
slower, it's a bit hard to understand the positioning and the awareness. But if you're playing in comp and you do
11:27
hold really far up like this, you'll have more of those games where your team has so much more time. like you'll lose
11:34
a fight, but look at where the card is now. We, let's say we lose the fight, we probably have three or four minutes left
11:39
and we're right here by the next point. So, as a tank, if you are able to hold
11:45
like, like you said earlier, as many properties as you can, there's a great way to visualize it. Then, by the time
11:51
you lose the fight here or win the fight, the cart is already up here. You've generated so much free space,
11:58
right? And one thing I do want to point out too is that if you do hold this high up while the car is still really far
12:03
away, you don't want to like hold this line like your life depends on it. It's okay to give up space because your only
12:08
objective here, this is just soft hold. If multiple people start walking out, then it's perfectly fine to give up
12:14
space. And then if you do want to give up space, then you just go and hold at the next corner, which is right here.
12:19
Right. And then this is on ninja specifically. This corner is super powerful because this game is based
12:24
around is based around right-hand peaks. This corner is a right-hand peak. So if you're on mag or any frontline tank, you
12:30
can just keep shimmying around the corner, do as much damage as you can while taking a very little amount of
12:36
damage. So you really want to keep in mind about the right hand peak set of Marvel rivals, especially as a main tank, cuz you don't want to take damage.
12:42
I know a lot of people want to say that you want to like farm your support alts, but in terms of holding space, you can't
12:47
hold space if you're taking infinite amount of damage, right? So making sure you're holding your corners is very
12:52
important as a as a main tank player. So, applying that theory, we cap this
12:57
point and your whole team dead. Your whole team's dead. You're dead. We cap this point. I'm immediately taking space right away, right? I'm going up. Um, as
13:05
the tank, my team is most likely going to follow me and I'm hoping that my supports are at least not all on cart,
13:11
which is also something to be aware of, right? So, sometimes you might have one support that goes up, but you might have one support sitting on cart. So, that is
13:17
something you also have to be aware of when holding space is you need to be aware of how many people you have sitting on cart cuz it is ranked and
13:25
sometimes you're going to have people that are like cart princesses and they'll sit on cart while you're taking up space. Um, and so let's say you you
13:31
go up here and you're holding this ground and you turn around, you notice you have one support on cart. You should be aware that you're going to have to
13:36
give up space a lot quicker doing that. And you also want to try to minimize the damage you're taking. like he said
13:43
earlier, holding these right-hand peaks um and minimizing the damage you you take and being aware of what's around
13:49
you so you know preemptively you have to give up space before you're low. Some tanks they might wait till they're like
13:54
200 health, turn around and be like, "Oh, why is my my support on cart and now you've died and you've ineded and now you feel like you're pushing too far
14:00
up even though you should be pushing this far up." Just being aware of how easily you can lose space if you have,
14:07
let's say, one support on cart or they push you back and you need to be willing to give up that space, especially when
14:12
you have free cart space because of the space you're holding. Your cart now um
14:17
gets to come all the way up to here without even really a fight happening. So, is there anything else?
14:24
Is there [laughter] is there is there anything else you want to add on about like main tanking and a holding card space before we move on to dive tanks?
14:31
per. Yes, exactly. So, Nug did a great job of explaining holding the space as much as you can without taking too much
14:37
damage. There are some variables here. For example, on us, this high ground right right here is a power position.
14:44
Meaning that like if you're on Strange, um instead of holding this right hand corner, you would want to hold the high
14:50
ground and do a soft poke from the high ground because this is the most important part of the map, right? Understanding the power positions. The
14:55
moment that a DPS walks on this high ground or even gets close to walk on the high ground, you will [clears throat] immediately have to disengage because
15:01
they will have infinite angles on you. Like it like if you stay on the corner while they're on high ground and if you
15:06
need to kite backwards, then you have to run all the way back behind the car and they can shoot you while they're on the high ground the whole time. What if
15:12
you're on a tank like uh like Emma that has to use her diamond form to get up? Would you still try to get up?
15:17
No. I, for example, if I'm on Emma Frost on this map, I would simply just hold
15:22
this spot right here and then as soon as a DPS goes on the high ground, I would walk back to this corner. Nothing else I
15:28
can do. Got to understand your limit, your limitations, and how much space you can hold. Right? So, you got to understand that
15:36
hold as much space as you possibly can, but don't die. All right? Not dying is the number one objective, especially
15:42
against main tank because if you die as main tank, then your front line will fold and you give up infinite space. It's still wable to win a fight when
15:48
your main tank is down, but in order to win a fight while your main tank is down, you have to pop infinite amount of, right? Main tank is a very um
15:55
important position in in the team comp. So, not dying as your main tank is still the number one priority. I'll say second
16:02
would be holding space. So, you don't not going too far forward at dying is so important because in ranked especially,
16:08
people just follow the tank, right? So if you're the main tank, you can essentially guide your team. Which is why if you are a main tank and you are
16:15
being a cart princess, it's probably one of the worst things you can do because your team is worst case scenario, your
16:21
DPS are the ones that walk forward and then they int and they die and you think to yourself, why are my DPS going so far
16:26
forward when it is also partly on you? Because you as the main tank, especially again, especially in ranked where people
16:33
aren't very coordinated and the big ass tank in front of them is most likely going to be who they're following. So,
16:39
if you walk up to here and you hold this corner, chances are at least majority of your team will follow you. And if they
16:45
aren't, it's also your job to be aware of them not doing that and give up space accordingly.
16:51
So, that's it for the main tank section. We are now going to move on to um uh off
16:57
tanks and then solo tanking. Okay, so the first thing we're going to talk about with off tanks is essentially
OFF TANKING
17:03
taking your turn. We talked about it for main tanks. Now we're going to talk about for off tanks because it's really, really, really important, especially for
17:10
off tanks. Taking your turn is also pretty easy to visualize as well. So, how would you start with taking your
17:16
turn? Let's say you load into a domination map as we are here and you're walking on Captain America. What is the
17:21
first thing you're thinking about in terms of taking your turn? What are you looking for? When are you when are you thinking about going in? What do you
17:27
what signals or key things are you looking for before you go for your dive? That's a great question, Doug. Um, for
17:34
domination, it's really, really easy for off tanks for the main reason is that there's a timer right at the top of your
17:39
screen. Right right when the map opens up, there's 30 seconds and right and 30 seconds till the point opens up. You
17:45
typically want to hit right when the point is at like five to 0 seconds because if you can hit the backline
17:51
right as the point's about to open up, then supports will have to look at you, which will allow your team to walk
17:57
forward and kill the tanks on point because the supports are occupied by you. For Hell's Heaven specifically, a
18:02
lot of it comes down to your routing, right? So, when I'm on Captain America, I'm I'm immediately looking to get uh
18:08
easy access into the backline. My my personal favorite is just walking on high ground,
18:15
right? Getting right here as quickly as I can. And then once the once the countdown goes from five, four, three,
18:22
until point opens up, right when it hits five or four, that's when I drop, slam the supports, and just do as much damage
18:28
as I can. But the key point is to not die, right? Your presence is more valuable than your damage when you're
18:34
the off tank. You're just trying to get as much attention as you can. You want to be all in their face, get active. As
18:40
long as you can get the supports and DPS to turn around, that will allow your main tank and your and your frontline
18:45
DPS like your Punisher or your Bucky to walk forward and shoot the main tank on point, allowing your team to walk
18:51
forward. You want to get in there as much as you can while living. the moment that you take a large amount of damage,
18:56
you can disengage by going back into your team to get heals from your supports obviously or if you're taking a
19:03
lot of damage and you know that your supports are really far back, then you can jump backwards and play the health packs, right? So, what if the enemy team
19:10
also has divers and you go in for your dive right now and let's let's just say for the sake of this one question, when
19:16
you did your routing, you did not encounter the divers and by the time you reach the backline, the enemy team is
19:21
diving your backline. Is that something you should be aware of? Like, let's say you know they have divers, but you didn't encounter them. Are you thinking
19:27
about stopping their divers as as a dive tank? Let's say it's Captain America. I'm sure each tank can be different, but
19:34
are there any tanks in specific off tanks where instead of diving, you'd perhaps peel instead or would you take a
19:40
turn? Like on Captain America, if they're on Venom, would you think about peeling the Venom first? Um, no. The reason is cuz that's not
19:47
what your character's good at, right? It's about understanding your kit. But there is an there is one exception.
19:53
The exception would be is if both Captain America's routed on the high ground right here and you guys match
19:59
each other right here and you guys would both punch each other and then whoever has more support would ultimately get the would get the better
20:05
position. Like if they had their Captain America and Iron Fist while it was just me, then I'd be forced to retreat,
20:11
right, and play safe. While if I had the Captain America in Iron Fist, we could clear the Captain America. Then I would
20:17
have the whole entire high ground and routing for free. So if the enemy team has, let's say, a Daredevil or a Magic, is your goal when
20:23
routing to actually encounter the dive DPS, that way you can contest them, or is are you do you ideally want to avoid
20:30
them? Uh, that's a great question. So if the if the dive DPS are completely by
20:35
themselves, then it's free eats for Captain America. Uh because unless like Iron Fist. Iron Fist would
20:41
be like the only one, right? Yeah. Yeah. Like Iron Fist. Um Daredevil is a bit of an exception too because it's hard to one v one a Daredevil. Um
20:48
but if it's anything besides a Daredevil or an Iron Fist, you can take the 1v one. But if it is an Iron Fist or a
20:54
Daredevil, if Iron Fist does start punching you, then the only thing that you can do as Captain America is kind of
21:00
retreat and hold your shield so that he can't auto track, right? And they're going to get better positioning. So that's when it comes
21:05
down to comps. What about some of the other off tanks? Like are there other off tanks where this whole routing and
21:11
contesting different DPS? Does it change? Like let's say you're on a rogue or you're on a venom. Um does it really
21:16
change how you want to like approach everything you've said thus far where you route to the backline, you perhaps
21:21
contest a DPS or whatever here and whoever has the most support wins. Um does it change when you go to different
21:27
dive or off tanks? Absolutely. Um the only off tank that would route like this would be Captain
21:32
America. If you're on Venom, you don't really need to consider you don't really need to route on the high grounds over
21:38
here because you can just swing and climb, right? If you're on Venom, the only thing you want to do is literally
21:44
get to the high ground on point as quickly as you can. Then right as the points about to open up, then that's when you slam on the backline.
21:50
So, is a Venom thinking about like the Daredevil or whatever who's routing to their own backline? Are they thinking
21:55
about contesting them at all? Absolutely not. That's not Venom's job whatsoever. And if Venom does get
22:01
marked, it's completely fine because he can swing and and cuz it like let's let's go back to where we were real
22:07
quick. Yeah. Let's say that a Venom did decide to path on high ground or just on any high
22:12
ground for example. And if you're a Venom and if you're Iron Fist and you're punching the Venom, um it doesn't really
22:19
matter because he can just climb on the wall and still hit the backline anyways. Mhm. Because of because of his slam, right?
22:25
Captain America, it's a little bit differently because he has to dedicate a lot more resources into slamming in his lower HP pool. Venom can simply slam,
22:33
right? Slam, do whatever he wants, press E, then swing out. So, how does this all change for things like like slightly
22:40
less divy off tanks like Rogue or Hulk? Let's say those, for example. How would it change a bit more for them?
22:46
Yeah, that's a great question. So, for Rogue, it depends if you have the Gambit team up or not. If you're on Rogue and you have the Gambit team up, then I
22:52
would encourage you to flank a little bit more and try to hit the backline. But if you don't have the team up, then
22:58
I would recommend playing a little bit more towards a little bit more in main with your main tank, right? And then if
23:04
you see a DPS or anyone taking an off angle, then that then that's your duty. So it's if you're on rogue, for example,
23:10
you because you can actually I'm pretty sure you can one v one pretty much every DPS except for maybe Ironfist that's good. Um that blocks really well, but
23:16
most DPS like you can you can one v one them. So, and you also have the mobility to quickly get there. So, if you're like on rogue and main, there's like there's
23:23
a a duelist up there, you can like quickly get there and contest them, right? And you can do that quite well, I'm assuming.
23:29
Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Right. Yeah. So, like if if let's say you're on rogue and you're you're you're just like walking
23:34
on point, you see that there's a DPS behind you. Let's just say a Starlord, you know, Star-Lords love this high ground right here, right? You can simply
23:41
press shift and jump up there and just start punching them immediately. Yeah. So, while there are some tanks
23:46
that are like only diving, which is like Captain America and Venom, for example, um there are some like kind of dive
23:53
tanks that actually it's your job to contest some of these off angle DPS like Rogue, Thor, and Hulk cuz these can
23:59
actually bully them. Like if you're on Hulk, sure, if you have a diver or maybe if you don't, um I I guess I can get you
24:05
can talk for a moment in in a second about like Hulk for example. But one thing these heroes do really well is you need to look at your off tank. Does your
24:12
off tank actually win and bully these duelists or or dive duelists mostly? Do
24:17
they bully them? If they do or even um poke DPS, like if you're on Captain America or Venom and there's a Phoenix
24:23
on height over there, you can contest them cuz you do win that, right? Exactly. Yeah. So, you do win that if you're on
24:29
like a dive tank, but if it's like a dive DPS like Daredevil or or Ironfist and they're routing to your own
24:35
backline, if you're on like Hulk or you're on Thor or you're on Rogue, you can and you should deal with these DPS
24:41
because you do bully them and you can quickly get in and out. Like if you're on Thor here and there's a Daredevil up
24:47
there, you're on rogue, you're on Thor, you're on Hulk, you can like lickety split, go up there, contest them, make them use all their cooldowns. Now they
24:54
leave and then you can route to the backline. So the main key points you need to understand as a as a tank player
24:59
whether you're playing as a main tank or an off tank is your number one priority is practically holding as much space as
25:05
possible and not dying. Those are the only two thing those are the two main things that will carry you from diamond
25:12
to grandmaster and celestial to one above all holding as much space as you possibly can. main tank, you can't hold
25:19
as much space as an Octane because Oct tanks are typically mobile, right? So, when you're on a main tank, you want to
25:24
typically hold the objective and and all the pathway and all the pathways through main, right? Like this choke point here,
25:31
this choke point over here, and this choke point up here, right? All
25:36
everything through main is the main tank's um space that that's where he needs to hold, right? It's in the name
25:43
main tank main, you know, walking through main, but but as the off tank, you can still hold as much space by
25:50
clearing all the angles on the left and right of each map and point. Right. So, by clearing all the angles. So, like
25:56
things like Rogue and Hulk and Thor can do that really, really, really well because they can bully any DPS there.
26:01
Exactly. Exactly. So, um off off tanks, their objective is to hold all the space
26:07
on the sides, right? All the space on the sides. And there's one thing I want
26:12
to mention that I kind of realized a while ago and it's uh it's why like Captain America and Venom are so good in
26:18
the poke meta, but heroes like Rogue and Hulk aren't that good is because if you think about it like this way, heroes like Rogue, Thor, and Hulk, who do they
26:25
deal with best? Other divers, you see a Daredevil, you see an Iron Fist, you see a magic, you go there as Hulk or Rogue
26:32
or um what was the other one I just mentioned? How am I forgetting? Did you say magic already?
26:38
No, I said Hulk, Rogue, and what was the third one? Hulk, Rogue, Captain America. We need to seize control.
26:44
Thor, sorry. Hulk, Rogue, and Thor. If you are Hulk, Rogue, or Thor, you can bully any kind of diver as they path to
26:50
your own backline. Captain America and Venom, what do they bully? They can bully Poke. It's why they're so good
26:57
this season. Any Phoenix on height, you can close the distance and deal with them really, really well. Something like
27:04
Hulk or um what's it called? Uh Captain America, sorry. with someone like Hulk
27:09
or Rogue is a lot harder to do that because chances are they're farther away and the kind of mobility you need to
27:15
deal with a phoenix that's let's say on height over there. Um it's a lot harder for someone like a rogue or a Hulk
27:21
because by going all the way over there you can do it depending on the map. You can do it but you're probably going to
27:26
get poked out on your way there. Um that's something that's really important to think about a phoenix like a phoenix
27:31
or a poke on height. They can deal with you a lot better than if you're a Venom or Captain America because you drive
27:36
them out immediately. You're a Venom. You're Captain America. You go for the Phoenix on height. You drive them out immediately.
27:41
But tanks like Ro Exactly. Yeah. And that's how you make a free a free turn for your team, too. Like, let's say
27:48
there's a Star-Lord up here, right? And I'm on like cap or I'm on rogue. The moment I deal like the moment I deal
27:54
damage, he's at half HP. He has to go back and retreat to his team. I can literally chase him all the way back to his supports and hit the supports.
28:01
Yeah. So, now you've earned a turn. You drove the Star-Lord out. He's not going to be hitting your supports. You've earned yourself a turn. You can freely
28:07
dive the back line. Exactly. Cuz they they have to dedicate resources to to heal whoever's low. And
28:13
you just completely wiped off their off angle, too. And now it's going to allow your team to take off angles and walk
28:18
forward for free. So clearing the the angles is a very high priority. And if you can clear an off angle, it gives
28:24
your team a free turn cuz you can take advantage of them having to retreat and you can walk forward. Solo tanking. Now,
SOLO TANKING
28:30
when you're a soul tanking, it is my understanding that solo tanking is you're so much more limited and there's
28:36
not much you can do. The the a lot of the weight of the game has been lifted on from you and put on your triple DPS
28:43
cuz you have three DPS. If you're going to have three DPS, chances are um they need to pull more weight as a whole, as
28:49
a dualist, than you as a tank because you're very limited. Especially if the enemy team has two tanks, sometimes your
28:55
most important thing you can do when you're soul tanking is holding as much space as you can while surviving and
29:01
essentially trying to support your duelist as much as you can. It's a bit unfortunate because you can't really
29:07
think of the mindset of making plays on your own, but supporting your own team as they try to make plays. Now, jokick,
29:14
before you tell me all the things you can about soul tanking, is my understanding of first that the there is
29:19
only really three tanks you could comfortably soul tank on while getting the most value. Now, technically, you
29:26
could soul tank anything and you could still win. It's ranked, but the best tanks for soul tanking are, is my
29:31
understanding it is Mag, Emma, and Strange. Is this correct? Yes, I that is correct. Uh, last patch I
29:38
wouldn't have included Emma, but since she got buffed, I would definitely include Emma now. So what are you looking for while solo
29:45
tanking in terms of like taking turns and supporting your team? Right. So let's imagine that this house
29:52
heaven game just started and domination just happened and the points just just about to open. Your main objective while solo tanking
29:58
is to hold as much space and specifically the point for as long as you can, right? You want
30:04
to hold this space as long as you can. keep poking because you can't go and be creative and go and take an angle
30:10
because if you go and try to take an angle then your supports wide open. Yeah, your supports could easily get
30:15
shot. So, when you're main tanking uh or solo tank, I should say, you pretty much have to play point 24/7. There's not too
30:22
much creative flexibility you can do, right? So, you want to hold the point as long as you can and the game is more in
30:27
the DPS's hands, right? Like, for example, let's say Nug was Iron Fist, right? And I'm shooting point points
30:34
about to open, right? point opens and I see my iron fist start flurring, that's when I would bubble my iron fist, walk
30:39
forward, and try to shoot the backline to the best of my ability. So supporting the duelist, right? So if I'm an iron fist, right, and I start
30:45
flurry punching, the only thing you could really do is like you're waiting for this moment of like, okay, my duelist are making a play, he's
30:51
flurrying. Um, and maybe maybe my Spider-Man or whatever goes in the backline. That's when you're like, "Okay, I'm going to try to support this
30:57
as much as I can." Maybe you could reach a bubble on your Spider-Man. Maybe you can reach that, maybe you can't. Yeah. Um, exactly. So, what about when they
31:04
dive your backline? Because you can't exactly walk back. Let's say you're on a mag here and they dive my backline. I
31:09
can't exactly walk all the way back there, right? I have to hold this. Is my priority to like bubble them or support
31:15
them while holding this position? That's a great question. So, let's say I'm on point right here. You know,
31:20
points both open 3 2 1 and they slam my back line, right? Yeah. First thing I do um when when the
31:26
when the point first opens up, you know, there's this pillar in the middle middle. I would stand behind the pillar, take as much cover as I possibly can.
31:31
You don't want to take damage while your supports are being dove, right? Because you can't get healed. They have to focus on each other, right? Yeah. So, you want
31:37
to take cover while supporting your backline. In order to do that, you stay you stand behind the cover,
31:44
shoot the backline as much as you can. Bubble if you can, right? Anything you can do to shoot out shoot out the divers.
31:49
Um, and then once the divers leave, that's when you're trying to support your DPS, right? And you got to make
31:54
sure that you got to shoot whoever your DPS are hitting, no matter who it is. It
31:59
could be someone super far back. It could be someone super close. Um, it it's really hard because sometimes your
32:04
DPS aren't the best players and they target the tank in front of you and it makes it hard to kill a tank, right? But generally, if you have a good DPS, they
32:11
will target squishier heroes. And that's when you would shoot the squishier heroes. You try to weave your bullets past the tank and shoot whoever your DPS
32:18
are shooting. You're when you're when you're solo tanking, I I don't even like to think of it as a tank. You're
32:23
basically playing a 600 HP support hero. You're shooting. That's a great way of wording it.
32:29
Yeah. You're shooting whoever your DPS are shooting, and you're peeling whoever's on your backline 24/7 while
32:37
contesting point. Three major things. Shooting who your DPS are shooting, peeling your supports whenever you can,
32:43
when it's the enemy team's turn, and then holding the objective. Those are the major three key points. you. It's
32:49
really hard to try to make a play as a main tank because got if you try to go take an angle or try to, you know, weave
32:55
around the main tank and try to make a play by yourself, you're not going to get support because your DPS are going to support you. You have to wait till
33:01
your DPS make a move for you to make a move. So even when you're playing, even when you're playing as main tank,
33:07
right, the power of turns and turns and taking turns in this game, it's still in effect, right? So, let's say both teams
33:13
have divers and you want to no matter what tank you're playing. Ideally, you want to save your cooldowns until your
33:19
turn. But if you have to use it on on their turn, you can, right? So, let's say you're holding here and they dive
33:25
your backline. You're shooting, but in one of your supports get really low and you have to use your bubble on them, right? You have to bubble your support
33:31
there. That is them getting out some of your cooldowns, but you're not going to make a turn while they're being dove. You're not looking to poke their
33:37
backline. Even if you have a diver diving, it's still fundamentally it's not your turn. You peel your own Oh,
33:43
oopsie. You're peeling your own backline and you're sending bubbles out while also taking cover and playing your life.
33:48
And then once those divers go out, then you look to their backline to support your own divers. Now, if you have your
33:54
bubble available, their divers went out, they use your cool downs, you can get a little bit more riskier. You can take a
34:00
little bit more space, especially as your divers go in. Or maybe you have a Phoenix on height on top of there, and you notice she takes an aggressive angle
34:07
and she's poking out their backline. You can even bubble your Fenix to help them stay aggressive. Or you notice one of
34:12
your duelists gets into a riskier position in front of you. Now you know, well, if you don't move up and like try
34:17
to help your duelist make a play here, they're going to die and lose the fight. Even even though your life is important,
34:22
your win condition there, if your duelists are in front of you, um, is that you guys land a pick. So often
34:27
times like let's say you have someone on the right taking a creative angle, you can poke whoever they're poking while
34:33
taking more space for yourself and possibly bubbling them and helping your duelist to make plays. Am I right with
34:38
that? Uh yes, precisely. Um one thing I do want to add on to that too is that when
34:43
you're solo tanking, your supports lie, your supports matter more than your DPS, right? So even though like let's say
34:50
both teams hit at the same exact time. The enemy team has a venom. He dives in. You have a Spider-Man and the Spider-Man
34:56
dives in at the same exact time. Yeah. Instead of supporting my Spider-Man, I would be peeling for the venom. Your supports lives matter most when you're
35:02
solo when you're solo tanking because if one support dives, you're not going to have the sustain to hold the point.
35:07
Yeah. I hope that makes sense. Yes. So when both teams are taking their turn, your priority as a solo tank is
35:13
making sure is protecting your team from their turn. That's the most important thing, right? over help over helping
35:19
your team with your turn. Precisely. The reason being is cuz if we have three three DPS, we should already
35:25
have enough offensive firepower to do a strong turn without your Magneto or your Emma or your Strange. But if you have
35:31
three DPS, you're not going to have enough peel, right? So, you have to prioritize peel over killing as you're solo tanking.
35:38
Okay. Well, is that everything you want to say about soul tanking? Is there anything else you have to offer?
35:43
Um, yeah, there is a couple more things as well. Um, ultimate ult,
35:50
right? First and foremost, ult usage. When you're playing Magneto and you're solo tanking,
35:56
you want to take you want to do your ultimate when it's during a turn, whether it's the enemy's team turn or it's your team's turn. You don't want to
36:03
you don't want to use your ult as a fart as a fart as a fight initiator. You want
36:08
to use your fight you want to use your ult during the fight, right? M like when the venom dives in and like let's say like a bucky in too that's
36:15
when you'd want to right you you never want to initiate the fight with your ultimate when you're solo tanking
36:21
it's risky right it's very risky easily counterable because everyone will already have abilities
36:27
also if you're on like strange or Emma so let's say you're on strange and you have your alt and the enemy team is
36:33
starting to approach you don't want to like go on the wall or like line up a strange alt because it's very risky
36:38
right yeah cuz you're the only tank maybe if you were an off tank You could uh like where you had two tanks, but because
36:43
you're the main tank, you want to wait until maybe they've started their turn. Like maybe three people have dove your backline. Well, now you probably even
36:49
have a free strangel on all three of them. It's a lot It's way less risky, right?
36:55
Way less risky cuz remember when you're solo tanking too, your life at the solo tank is the most valuable out of any
37:01
other team out of any other team member that you have. The solo tank's life is more valuable than all the supports,
37:06
more valuable than all the DPS. So, if you do risky stuff as a main tank, you're not going to win your games
37:12
because you're going to die and the team's going to have infinite space. By you simply living, you control space.
37:17
So, you don't want to do risky. You want to take your when you do your ults, you want to do do it during turns. You never
37:23
want to initiate a fight with your with your ultimate ability. Um because the enemy team will have abilities and stuff
37:30
to counter it already. You need to wait for the fight to develop first before you start utilizing your ultimate ability. Yeah, like Magneto on Punisher
37:36
or Star-Lord or Emma on a Star-Lord. Let's say they star um or Strange on really most duelists. A a Daredevil is
37:43
like a perfect example. You know, you see a Daredevil ulting your backline, that's a great time to strange al you have to peel for that anyways and using
37:49
your strange, you most likely might even save the fight. Exactly. Right. Or like a venom dives in and he gets low your your Luna freezes
37:56
him. You could ult to eat the mag to eat the heals. Then your team can walk forward and you have a free turn. And
38:01
that that way your mag goal is not only a defensive because you prevented the venom from from pushing forward and and you prevented your your supports from
38:07
dying, but then you can also throw the rock aggressively towards the backline and try to make a play. And that that last little point there
38:14
about using your magle to e heals is not something I I really hear about low rank when he was ever really doing. But it is
38:20
something worth thinking about if there's like a guaranteed kill in your mind. If there's always every fight is
38:25
different. If there's a tank or really anyone that you know um should all healing be cut off, they will die right
38:32
now. Then you could ma you could al this mag and eat all the healing and then guarantee that you you can turn the
38:37
whole fight around just like that. Let's say it's a tank on the front line. They get really low and you have duelists that are actively hitting that tank.
38:43
It's not like you have three divers. You have tank you have DPS that are actively hitting the Magneto. you then you could
38:49
pop your alt eat all healing on that tank that's with you and then that that tank dies and then you still have your
38:55
rock you can throw and so that could turn the whole fight around but it's also dur during a fight and it's during
39:01
your turn because their mag gets low now it's your turn you can make that play now.
39:06
Exactly. Yeah. The uh the the main thing about being a tank and being a one above vault tank or whatever rank you want to
39:13
achieve in the game is to understand the terms of the game. Tanks have to have tank players have to have the highest game awareness out of any other role in
39:20
the game because you because you can see the most. You know, you're on the front line, you can see everything that's happening behind you or in front of you.
39:26
And then if you see somebody hitting your backline, you can easily see it. You can see somebody dive in as long as you're moving your camera around, right?
39:32
So tanks need to have the highest game awareness out of out of any other role in the game because you can do
39:37
everything in the game. You can peel, you can you can dive, you can do a lot of damage, you can save your team, you
39:42
have good ults. As long as you're a tank player and understand the turns of the game and manipulate the turns to your
39:48
advantage, that's how you can easily climb the ranks. Guys, if you enjoyed this guide, please let me know what you
39:54
want to see going forward in future videos. Uh what kinds of guides you're interested in. But uh yeah, that's all
40:00
for today's video. As always, take care.